Welcome back everyone.
So in this lesson we are just going to add some finishing touches to our blog code so our index J.S.
we currently need to sort the actual blog posts themselves so that their order is more based on the
date having the latest be the ones at the top.
Now how we can do this is we can actually use a sort method the sort method is inside of graph QR as
well and as a allows us to sort by some specific field value and in our case the one that we want to
sort off of is our fronts matter underscore underscore underscore date and the order that we want it
to be in is descending order.
Now if this is confusing you can actually see this as well inside of graph Q well.
So if we were to take our all mark down remarks and here we check to sort it inside of here we see on
our sort that we sort by some field and if the field that we want to sort by is date what we have to
do is say that it's based off a front matter date you see right here this autocomplete underscore underscore
date.
That's how we access a property that sits inside of an object on the field now.
After this we want to sort by the order and we can do descending or ascending.
So that's what it is.
So by this automatically now this is sorted by descending order we can double check by checking the
front matter.
Date value
and now we see that the latest ones are at the top.
So that's all we're doing here.
We're just sorting this by this order now that we have all of the data.
The other thing that we want to do is be able to link to our pages from these components.
So what we can do is we can also pluck off the fields and grab the slug from the note itself because
as we know we've added it in now one other thing that we might want to do is actually style this page
so that it looks a little better the way that I'm going to suggest you do it is with style components
but you can totally do it with any other styling that you're comfortable with inside of react.
So in order to actually add in style components to Gatsby there is a Gatsby plugin that allows us to
add stock components really easily to our Gatsby folder.
So what we'll do is we will let's just cancel our server first and just like before using the package
manager that you've been using up until now.
For you it's either yarn or or NPM I'm using yarn just add in these three packages so I'm going to say
yarn add Gatsby plug in styled components which is the Gatsby plug in first thought components we need
styled components itself.
So this is the star components library and then I need the babble plug in styled components so we need
these three in order to properly run stock components inside of our application.
And once it's finished installing what we're going to do is modify our Gatsby config so that it includes
our Gatsby stock components plug in and all we do is we just add it somewhere here.
I'm just gonna put it right here and it's going to be our Gatsby plug in styled components and now we're
able to load style components into our application.
So what I want to do is write stock components for my index J.S. now in order to use stock components
we just need to bring it in.
So we are going to import in styled import in styled from style components and then what we're going
to write is we are going to make our blog link.
So we've imported in the slug we now actually need to allow our title to be clickable in that way.
Now the first document I'm going to make is a blog link.
So this is pretty much just us using these style component library wrapping around the link component
that we get from Gatsby and what I'm going to say is I want to apply the styling of having no text decoration
the reason for this is because the link is actually just an A tag with some modifications on it.
So in our case I don't want any of these styling that comes with an attack.
After that I'm going to use it to actually just wrap around the actual span tag that we have here so
I'm just gonna put in my blog link and this is just going to navigate us to our node fields dot slug.
So now our blog link actually points us to our slug field that we have after that I'm going to make
another one called blog title and this blog title is just going to be a styled H3
and on this component I am going to put a let's just say a margin bottom of 20
let's actually make it blue as well.
Just so that we can see the changes and then I'm going to replace this span with it.
Now if I save and we go back to our application we'll see that our links are now clickable and they
take us to our respective blog post that's pretty much all that we need to do in order to actually build
out our blog.
Now the last thing that you might want to do is host this somehow.
Gatsby is actually really great with a another service called Net Lafite net VI allows us to host static
web sites and get continuous development pretty much for free.
And the easiest way to do that is you just first instantiate a get hub repo that you put your code into.
So you can make a new repo and I'm just going to call it new Gatsby block.
I am going to just copy this key.
So if you don't have access H that I'll just use HDTV yes.
It's about the same and then I'm just going to make sure to run get ad dash a get commit adding all
our new blog code for Gatsby set up and then I'm going to get ad remote origin and then paste in that
key that we just copy upside get remote ad origin and then paste that key so now that we have a remote
origin I'm going to run get push origin master with the new code that we have
and now that we have the setup what we're going to do is we simply go to net Lafite.
Now on net Lafite you have to sign up if you haven't signed up just make sure to do so once you've signed
up just make a log in.
And now it's so incredibly easy to actually set this up.
So what you need to do is just make sure that your code is actually on the new site that you've got
in your repo.
So we see that my code is now inside of my new Gatsby blog repo.
And what I'm going to do is just click this new site from get I'm going to select get hub for the continuous
deployment option and it's going to ask to authorize me.
Now you probably have to allow it to authorize you to connect to your GitHub and what you're gonna do
is just find the name of your actual repo
once you have it.
You click it by default.
All of these settings should be good.
It's gonna run the Gatsby build.
And once you click deploy that's it.
It's in the process of building and deploying your Web site.
And once your Web site's finished it's going to give you the actual link that tells you what your site
is hosted to.
So let's just wait for our Web site to finish deploying OK.
So now that it's finished we see that we get our you url.
We simply click it.
And now we are live with our blog so if you actually want to make any changes it's super easy because
all you do is you just write the code you push to get hub and automatically getting Natalya firewall
restart and reboot and redeploy your Web site.
So here I actually didn't add in any posts.
So what I'm gonna do right here is I'm just going to add the word posts.
I'm going to save.
I'm going to get and added word posts.
I'm going to push and once this pushes up to my github again if you go back to Natalya Fei you might
actually see when you scroll down here and production deploys that there's this new second tab for another
production.
So this is actually a list of all of the deployments that are being made now yours might say include
or it might see in progress.
Mine just got published.
So now if I go back to my blog and I refresh I see the word up there.
So this is awesome because identify just immediately gives you tenuous development right off the gate
with your get hub account and it was so simple to setup.
So with this you pretty much have your blog all the code is written you can pretty much use stock components
or any other styling system you want and tackle the coding challenge as you please.
So good luck everybody.
And I hope you enjoyed this lesson on how to use Gatsby.